fine I'll do the video hey guys what's
up it's Jerry at 'day we're taking you
look at a trio of sonic games that
nobody ever talks about it's sonic
advance one two and three for the Game
Boy Advance didn't see that one coming
did you the Sonic the Hedgehog series
what a bumpy bumpy bumpy bumpy bumpy
bumpy bumpy ride it has been while the
console games have been struggling to
find more than a handful of quality
titles Sonic's rarely flopped when it
comes to his games on handheld devices
there have been low points and very low
points but there are way more high
points today we're gonna take a look at
three of those high points the Sonic
Advance trilogy in the distant past of
2001 Sega took a trip back to what made
Sonic & Friends who they are today 2d
platforming after years of drought for
the franchise experimentation with 3d
platforming and sega becoming a
third-party publisher sonic was alive
and kicking on Nintendo consoles what of
Sonic's first titles for the gaming
juggernaut was Sonic Advance it featured
many levels that were heavily inspired
by the motifs of Sonic levels from the
past ice world's casinos you name it it
had it it was great then they made
another one and that was great too this
one introduced creating the rabbit who
could destroy enemies by both jumping on
them and commanding her Chow partner
cheese to attack them then they made
another one and that was just okay it
kept in all the things that the last
games had but it also added a bit too
much in order to change things up from
the last game sonic advance 3 took some
inspiration from Sonic 2 and even more
so from knuckles chaotix however unlike
Sonic 2 you can turn the partner off and
unlike knuckles chaotix you aren't
strapped to your partner by using the
various combinations of characters
you'll have access to a number of
different abilities they can be used to
get through areas easier or inflict
challenge upon yourself seems like a
cool idea but most of the time it sucks
and you should just play with Sonic and
Tails oh and why did they give us these
unnecessary help rolls again
now the word trilogy when used in a
gaming context might make most people
think that the games have an overarching
plot of some sort
well they don't and honestly that's
totally okay with me in the first game
Eggman does what he always does he
steals the animals and sighs gotta save
them in the second game Eggman does the
exact same thing and Sonic's gotta stop
them again and in the third game Eggman
splits the planet apart it's not us got
to stop them again it's almost like
they're paying homage is a classic era
of games with how it strays away from
Sonic fighting a giant monster made of
water and other things of that nature
it's simple and it works I really like
it when it comes to speed sonic games
have almost always given you a great
sense of the word it's an important part
of the franchise and needs to be taken
into consideration what levels are being
designed the advanced trilogy keeps this
trend going by giving us several high
quality levels that'll make you feel an
insane recive joy every time you go
through a loop the levels are built
around building momentum and using it to
your advantage
Lutie loops grind rails and ramps are
all over but there are also basic
platforming puzzles strewn about the
levels to change at the pace
unfortunately lots of the levels have an
issue that the entire sonic franchise
has had in recent years trial and error
platforming sections over bottomless
pits it's really aggravating when these
are the cause of death because they
appear out of nowhere most of the time
and pretty much punish you for going
fast which is what I thought Sonic was
supposed to do and let's not forget the
occasional invincibility and speed shoes
and a slow moving enemy free platforming
section think guys pink oh and the
special stages can go themselves don't
even bother with them the environments
you'll be exploring in these games are
really quite varied well of course some
level motifs have been seen over and
over almost being done to death by the
genre itself they're still well polished
and a pleasure to the eyes a level like
music plant is a great example of Sonic
teams creativity at work now while the
levels in the game look great and are
fun to play through most of them
unfortunately don't seem to have that
charm that the other games have had with
a level like green hill zone or speed
highway I can almost always pick out
exactly where on the level the player is
just by a screenshot because the set
pieces are quite varied with these games
though things just seem to blend
together and while it doesn't take away
from the quality it loses a few points
when it comes to that charm that I
mentioned
for and while the backgrounds look nice
as well but not exactly as detailed as I
would like them to be
the game does earn back some of these
lost charm points by having very well
animated and expressive character
sprites they really seem to come alive
on the screen and bring some extra
personality along with them it's really
fun seeing the characters interact with
each other or sonic get ready to run
down a long strip of land or cream and
cheese do whatever this is and while
we're still on the topic of charm and
theming music is one of the things Sonic
games consistently get right and these
games do just that the GBA itself may
have not had the most advanced audio
capabilities but that didn't stop the
devs from creating some great tracks
that bring the theming of each level
full circle the songs are fast paced and
exciting and really captured the speed
of Sonic perfectly and I can't get them
out of my head if you're looking for a
Sonic game to play all three of these
titles are great choices especially -
that one's my favorite unfortunately
they get forgotten about by most people
because they're on the GBA and most
people turn to the classic games on the
Genesis for their 2d sonic fix I
wholeheartedly suggest you give these
three games a shot